configuration/webhooks.md, before:

# Webhooks

> Webhooks are configured within the App (no code required) and send HTTP requests when a specific event is triggered.
> [Learn more about Webhooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webhook).

## Creating Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks**
2. Click <span mi btn>add</span> in the header
3. Complete the **other webhook form fields** outlined below

- **Name** — A name to help remember this webhooks purpose
- **Method** — Send as either a HTTP `GET` or `POST` request
- **URL** — The URL to send the request to
- **Status** — Whether the webhook is active (enabled) or inactive (disabled)
- **Data** — Whether the event's data should be sent along with the request
- **Request Headers** — Custom headers that will be added to the webhook request
- **Trigger Actions** — The specific actions that will trigger the event
- **Trigger Collections** — The specific collections for which the above actions will trigger events

## Disabling Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span>
   [Webhook]**
2. Set the **status field to inactive**

## Deleting Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span>
   [Webhook]**
2. Click <span mi btn dngr>delete</span> in the header
3. Confirm this decision by clicking **Delete** in the dialog

::: danger Irreversible Change

This action is permanent and can not be undone. Please proceed with caution.

:::

Commit message:

Docs: Data Model (#23)
* moved data-model draft into this new repo, removed pagelinks to pages for 2nd PR from sidebar

* tiny fix in config.js

* sysem collections rough draft + began fields

* fields, first draft complete

* drafted m2o and o2m

* rewrote O2O section

* relations initial rough draft complete

* data-model re-edited, no media, examples need work

* collection's first proofedit

* more collections cleanup, more fields cleanup

* data-model first draft complete, no media

* fixed bug in fields.md markdown

* added dummy media to data-model

* proof-edits

* relationships

* more proof edits on relationships.md

* comma fix

* updated lofi sketches, small tweaks to copy

* Rijk's data-model review, 1.0

* forgot a link

* small text tweaks

* added in sketches

* data-model vids linked

* all media in place

* one more media doc

* proofread

* fixed TODOs for data-model

* more tweaks

Co-authored-by: Rijk van Zanten <rijkvanzanten@me.com>

configuration/webhooks.md, after:

# Webhooks

> Webhooks are configured within the App (no code required) and send HTTP requests when a specific event is triggered.
> [Learn more about Webhooks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webhook).

:::warning

Webhooks are a deprecated feature and will be removed from the platform. This functionality has been fully replaced by
[Flows](/configuration/flows.md).

:::

## Creating Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks**
2. Click <span mi btn>add</span> in the header
3. Complete the **other webhook form fields** outlined below

- **Name** — A name to help remember this webhooks purpose
- **Method** — Send as either a HTTP `GET` or `POST` request
- **URL** — The URL to send the request to
- **Status** — Whether the webhook is active (enabled) or inactive (disabled)
- **Data** — Whether the event's data should be sent along with the request
- **Request Headers** — Custom headers that will be added to the webhook request
- **Trigger Actions** — The specific actions that will trigger the event
- **Trigger Collections** — The specific collections for which the above actions will trigger events

## Disabling Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span>
   [Webhook]**
2. Set the **status field to inactive**

## Deleting Webhooks

1. Navigate to **Settings <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span> Webhooks <span mi icon dark>chevron_right</span>
   [Webhook]**
2. Click <span mi btn dngr>delete</span> in the header
3. Confirm this decision by clicking **Delete** in the dialog

::: danger Irreversible Change

This action is permanent and can not be undone. Please proceed with caution.

:::
